In this lecture, I'm going to introduce you to Spring Security and the Oath 2.0 authorization framework.
Spring security is a powerful and highly customizable authentication and access control framework.
It is the de facto standard for securing spring based applications.
Spring security is a framework that focuses on providing both authentication and authorization to Java
applications.
Like all spring projects, the real power of spring security is found and how easily it can be extended
to meet customer requirements.
Some of its features include comprehensive and extensible support for both authentication authorization,
protection against attacks like session fixation, click checking cross site request forgery, etc..
Server API integration and optional integration with Spring Web MVC.
The North 2.0 authorization framework enables a third party application to obtain limited access to
an HTP service, either on behalf of a resource owner by orchestrating an approval interaction between
the resource owner and the HTP service, or by allowing the third party application to obtain access
on its own behalf.
This specification replaces an obsolete.
The Oath 1.0 protocol.
When the Oath 2.0 authorization server authenticates a user, it generates a JWT or Jason Webb token.
But what is a Jason Webb token?
JWT or Jason Webb token is based on the RF C7 five one nine standard that defines X's tokens can be
generated and encoded as Jason objects to enable the secure transmission of data adjacent.
Webb token consists of a set of claims which refers to information in the form of key value pairs that
are generally used for authentication authorization and for exchanging sensitive information.
Jason Webb tokens are trusted since they are digitally signed using a hash based message authentication
code algorithm or a reverse Shamir, Eidelman or RSA signature with S.H. a two, five, six.
What are we going to do in the section?
We are going to generate an oath to point out authorization server project using the spring, initialize
it.
Then we are going to create to use a service and repository.
The user service will extend the user details service so that the OS 2.0 authorization server can use
our user data during authentication.
They after we are going to implement customized web and auth server configuration classes.
This is to ensure that the correct user authentication mechanisms are applied and that the adjacent
web token is generated using the specified token generation and validation parameters.
Then we are going to secure our MICRA services by configuring our MICRA services as OS 2.0 resource
servers.
This is required so that our military services will be able to validate the Jason with tokens that will
be passed to it as barett token authentication headers.
You might ask, why do we want to build our own OS 2.0 authorization server, shouldn't we just use
a third party authorization server?
Or you might say, hang on, didn't spring security deprecate or discontinued the authorization server
now in November 2019?
An announcement was made that the authorization server will no longer be supported by spring security
in future releases.
However, early in 2020, an announcement was made that, based on the community's feedback, that the
decision to not support the authorization server going forward will be reviewed.
Based on that feedback, Bob Winge from Pivotal announced the brand new spring authorization server
in April 2013.
Before we start to build and configure our Auth 2.0 authorization server, let's take a look at how
the authentication authorization procedure will work.
When a client application, which could be a website or mobile application, wants to make an API request,
it will request a Jason Webb token from the OS 2.0 authorization server.
The authorization server will then authenticate the requested user based on a given grant type, such
as password.
If the user is authenticated, it will generate a JWT and respond back to the client application.
The client application will then add the JWT as a bearer token authorization http header and make an
HTP request to a restful API, which in our case could be either the User Command API, user query API
or the bank account command or query APIs that we are still going to build a little later.
Our APIs will then have the resource server enabled.
Therefore, once the API receives the HTTP request, it will validate the JWT authorized the user and
if the user has been authorized, it'll process the request and respond back to the client application.